
Who can register the vehicle: 
vehicle owner (possible co-owners must be present during registration) or a
representative/official agent of the company (if the vehicle is a company vehicle) or 
an attorney

The vehicle must be registered within 30 days of its arrival in Poland. To register your vehicle, you have to prepare all required documents and pay the fees.
You can submit car registration documents in one of the following ways:
in person at the office, by mail or send by electronic means (if the office allows the application to be sent by this means).
Where to apply for vehicle registration

You can submit your application from Monday to Friday to the Vehicle Registration Department at the following address:

Zapolskiej 4, ground floor, counters from 1 to 21 (from 8:00 to 17:15);
Nowy Targ 1-8, ground floor, counters from 9 to 13 (from 8:00 to 17:15);
Kromera 44, ground floor, counters operated by the R Group (from 8:00 to 15:15);
Karkonoska 45 (from 8:00 to 15:00)
You will find more information together with the registration system described in detail here:

gov.pl/web/gov/zarejestruj-pojazd;
um.wroc.pl/case to deal with 9149/registration-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-purchased-and-registered-in-country– in case the vehicle was purchased in the country;
um.wroc.pl/customs-only/9150/registration-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle-vehicle– in case the vehicle was imported from abroad.
How do I obtain a driving license in Poland
Everyone person who has lived in Poland for at least 185 days can apply for a Polish driving licence if they are of appropriate age or they already have a driving licence and would like to obtain another category. The basic procedure is as follows:

Medical assessment for future drivers – you need a medical certificate confirming that you can drive vehicles (ask your doctor at the school that prepares you for the driving test).
Preparation of necessary documents.
Submit the documents to the appropriate office (the district office in your place of residence, the city office – if you live in a city with district rights, e.g. in Wrocław).
Pick up a PKK number (Driver Candidate Profile), which is a unique number for each driver candidate. It will allow the driving school and traffic centre to search for you in the system.
Taking the course and passing the driving test (if you pass the practice test, the examination centre will send a message to your office).
Paying for a driving licence (if you pay at the cash desk – take the fee confirmation to the room where your application was accepted. If you are making a transfer – send an e-mail with confirmation of the transfer to the office).
Collecting driver’s license.
What is an international driving licence and why it is advisable to obtain one;
If you want to drive outside the European Union (EU) – in countries that are parties to the Vienna or Geneva Conventions, it is worth obtaining an international driving licence. It can be obtained by anyone who has a valid Polish driving licence. You will submit your application to any district governor in person or by post.

For more information, please visit citizen.gov.pl/drivers-i-tours/your-owners/your-owners-rights/rides.