The application form for issuance of work permit can be submitted in:
1.The office headquarters
2.At Delegation Offices of the Provincial Office of Lower Silesia in Jelenia Góra,
Legnica or Wałbrzych
3.Send by post to the office headquarters’ address

The most frequent mistakes made while submitting the form to obtain the permission for
work for the foreigners are:
1.Failure to mark point 5.3 of the form (point 6.3 of the form to obtain extension of
the permit) regarding the criminal record of the foreigner. It is required to mark an
appropriate field, one of two;
2.Incomplete filling out or total omission of appropriate fields in the appendix
regarding lack of criminal record of the entity providing employment (appendix 15.)
3.There are 6 points in the statement but eight answers and that amount of fields
should be marked by the employer;
4.Undersigning of the above mentioned appendix by the proxy. This statement may
be submitted only by the employer;
5.Not including the address of the workplace of the foreigner in the form;
6.Not including in the form submitted by the natural person of the valid ID card or
passport;
7.Including only one page copy of the foreigner’s passport – copies of all filled out
pages are required;
8.Including the copy of “information of district head” - the original document is
required
9.Not presenting the original of Power of Attorney.

You can work during the waiting time for the permission for residence on condition that you were entitled to work directly before submitting the application form – namely, you had a permission for the temporary residence and work or
temporary work permit, and after submitting the application form you will work under
conditions determined in the owned permission. If, before submitting the application
form, you did not have the right to work in Poland, you will be able to work on condition
that you obtain permission to work or declaration of consignment to work.

Residence card issued by other country belonging to Schengen area entitles you to the
stay for touristic purposes in the territory of different member states of the Schengen
area (including Poland) during the period no longer than 90 days in every 180 days’
period. The residence card itself does not entitle you to undertake employment and work in Poland.

In order to work legally in the period of waiting for
the decision for the subsequent residence card,
You don't have to have the work permit, provided that the application does not contain any formal deficiencies
and you have your stay legalized, e.g. a stamp in passport or valid visa.
The work must be done for the employer and within the role determined in the
decision. Otherwise, the work will be considered as illegal.
It is not required to obtain new permissions for work for foreigners if the entity
employing them changed the headquarters, address, name or legal form, it was acquired
in the whole or part by other entity, or if it was in part or whole transferred to other
employer, or in case the civil law agreement was changed into work agreement.

“Invitation for work” is most often an incorrect name for permission for work or
declaration of consignment to work. The first of them is issued by the voivode and the
latter by district head (district labour office). Obtaining thesepermission for work should be preceded by submitting appropriate forms
together with appendices. 

Foreigners using visa-free travel can be employed on condition that the foreigner has the permission for work or registered declaration
of consignment to work. Stay within the visa-free travel is legal for a 90-day period during 180-day
period.

The foreigner does not have to be in Poland in order to obtain permission for work.

Visa can be obtained based on permission for work but this is not the decisive factor. The decision is made by consul.


PKD symbol connected with the work performed by the foreigner indicated by the
employer in the Central Registry and Information about Business Activity (CEiDG) and
National Court Register (KRS) is required to be inserted in the application form. This
concerns both the consigning employer and the user employer.

The entity consigning work to the foreigner should notify the voivode who issued a
permission for work within 7 days in a written form about the following circumstances:
The foreigner began the work in different character or on different position than
stated in the work permission. Employer may consign to the foreigner work of
different character or on a different position than one determined in the permission
for 30 days in a given calendar year, provided that the requirements to perform
certain work are met;
There was a change in headquarters or address, name or private form of the entity
consigning the foreigner the work or acquisition of the workplace or its part by
other employer occurred.
The workplace or its part was transferred onto another employer;
Foreign employer’s representative assigned to represent the employer before the
voivode and other entities has changed;
The foreigner did not start working within 3 months from the initial validity date of
the work permission;
The foreigner ceased to work for the period of time longer than 3 months;
The foreigner finished the work earlier than 3 months before the expiry date of the
work permission.
	
Decision of work permit does not have to be collected personally by employer, it can be collected by a representative authorized by the employer. Employer
may also request for the decision to be sent to the indicated address.

It is obligatory within the procedure for issuance of work permission to enclose the
original district head’s information. In case of the procedure for issuance of temporary
residence permission a copy-original for insight will suffice.

	
The employer can conclude both employment contract and civil law agreement (e.g.
mandate contract or specific-task contract). The contract should be made in a written
form.

Full-time students, regardless of whether they have or do not have their temporary
residence permission or visa, can work on Polish territory without the necessity of
obtaining work permission during the validity period of their stay allowance document
(visa or card). Students of part-time programmes must have the work permission or
registered declaration of work consignment to be able to work in Poland (if they are
citizens of Armenia, Belorussia, Georgia, Moldova, Russia or Ukraine) regardless of
having the visa or stay permission issued on account of education undertaken in Poland.
