There are both public and private health care in Poland. Everyone employed under an employment contract, contract of mandate or self-employed person is obliged to pay health insurance contributions. When you enter into an agreement with your employer, they are obliged to report you to the health insurance and pay contributions for you. In this way you can benefit from free medical care. However, you will need to wait for some examinations and visits to specialists due to queues, so sometimes people choose the services of private doctors. In an emergency life threatening situation, specialists will provide you with immediate assistance in the admission rooms and hospital emergency departments. PESEL number makes it much easier to use your free medical care. In this chapter of our guide you will find out:


In Poland, the National Health Fund (NFZ) is the institution responsible for financing and providing public health services. Contributions for compulsory health insurance are paid through a public organisational unit – the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS).

Foreigners coming to Poland can benefit from public health services provided that they apply to the National Health Fund. This is usually done through the employer.

All persons employed in Poland (on a contract of employment or mandate), including foreigners, are subject to the obligation of health insurance. When you start working, your employer reports you as an employed person, which means that your monthly salary will automatically be paid into the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS). Remember that in case of termination of employment, the insurance ends 30 days after the termination of the employment contract. If you have your own business, you have to pay the appropriate contributions to the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS) on time.
As a rule, treatment of a person insured in the National Health Fund is free of charge (it is financed from medical insurance funds). In some cases, however, you may have to pay for some services. The National Health Fund does not finance benefits that are not included in the lists of guaranteed benefits set forth in the Ordinance of the Minister of Health.
Remember! If you do not have the insurance of the National Health Fund and go to hospital,you will have to pay the full cost of treatment.


If you are staying in Poland without a valid health insurance, you should consider the option of voluntary insurance with the National Health Fund in order to avoid the costs of hospital treatment in case of sudden illness or accident. For that to happen, submit an application to the National Health Fund (in one of the branches near your place of residence).In order to sign an agreement with the National Health Fund, if you are from the outside of the EU, in addition to your passport you must also have your visa or a residence permit.
After signing an agreement with the National Health Fund, you must go to Social Insurance Institution and submit a ZUS ZZA form. Information about National Health Fund, the amount of the contributions as well as the date of payment date can be obtained from the National Health Fund branch.
Remember that citizens of EU countries who have not yet taken up work or have lost their jobs can register with the Labour Office as unemployed and get insurance for themselves and their children. You will need to present the certificate of insurance from the Labour Office when you register with a doctor.

Choosing a clinic and doctor
The whole procedure of visiting the doctor at the clinic will be faster if you provide your PESEL number (PESEL procedure, see Chapter 2). If you do not have a PESEL number, you can register for a visit by submitting your passport or residence card.

After you register with the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS), you must register with the appropriate clinic. In other words, in order to receive medical care, it is not enough for the employer to report to the Social Insurance Institution alone. It is also necessary for you to choose a doctor called a primary care physician. Take your passport, residence card and proof of payment of contributions to the clinic you choose (you will receive it from your employer). Fill in the application form on the spot and register to take full advantage of your insurance. It is best to choose a clinic near your place of residence, checking beforehand whether the institution has a contract with the National Health Fund (NFZ).

When registering at a selected clinic, it is worth remembering that health services provided to an insured person may also be used by members of their immediate family (children, spouses, parents, grandparents), if they are not insured under any other title (such information should be reported to the employer in order for your family to be included in your insurance and when choosing a National Health Fund institution).

Choosing a doctor/nurse/midwife:
As an insured person in the National Health Fund, you have the right to choose a facility, doctor, nurse and midwife of basic health care. This choice is evidenced by the so-called declaration of choice, which is usually completed on the spot at the clinic. Ask a the person in charge of the registration to help you fill it in.

The family doctor, the internist and the paediatrician
Patients often do not know that the family doctor, internist and paediatrician are doctors of different specialisations. The scope of family medicine is slightly wider than that of an internist or paediatrician. The family doctor can provide health services and advice to both adults and children. The paediatrician only takes care of the children. An internist only deals with adults.

Remember that children attending a Polish school are entitled to free health care under the NFZ.


As a student you can also voluntarily insure yourself in the National Health Fund and benefit from free health care.
To sign a contract with the National Health Fund using student insurance, first obtain your student status document from the Dean’s Office.
Then go to the appropriate branch of the National Health Fund – Lower Silesia Branch of the National Health Fund, Insurance Service Centre (ul. Dawida 2 in Wrocław, tel. +48 71 797 91 32). Bring the following documents with you:
a certificate from a higher education institution confirming the status of a student,
student ID,When you are there – fill in the application form for voluntary insurance.
Come to the branch on the date set by the National Health Fund to sign a voluntary insurance agreement.
After signing the agreement, within 7 days register at the branch or inspection of the Social Insurance Institution (ZUS) by submitting a ZUS ZZA blank form (“Application for health insurance”).
A student who has signed an agreement for insurance and pays contributions on time has the right to receive medical care in the territory of Poland in points which have signed a contract with the National Health Fund for providing medical assistance (there is an appropriate marking with the “NFZ” inscription in such clinics).

Going to the doctor, you must have a copy of the agreement with the National Health Fund with you, as well as a blank application form for the Social Insurance Institution and a confirmation of the last month’s contribution fee.

The addresses of the Social Insurance Institution branches in Wrocław can be found here: www.zus.pl/o-zus/kontakt/oddzialy-inspektoraty-biura-terenowe.

You can also sign insurance agreement with private insurance agencies. You can choose any package of services, depending on your needs and financial capabilities.


There are many private medical facilities in Wrocław offering a wide range of health services for a fee. You can easily find them using a search engine. Their offer is used by many citizens of Wrocław.
The main advantage of private health care is often the fact that you can register with a doctor who speaks your language. Private clinics inform about the languages spoken by the doctors they employ on their websites. You can also purchase a private medical policy to help you access private medical care.