If you are foreigner living in Poland, you can register your residence – in such a situation, you will automatically obtain a PESEL Number [Polish acronym for „Universal Electronic System for Registration of the Population”].
 If you cannot register your residence, and any agency requires a PESEL Number from you – submit an application. Check how to do this.

You will obtain the PESEL Number ex officio – if you register your residence in Poland for a stay of over 30 days.
Submit an application with any municipality/township office – if you cannot register your residence, but you need the PESEL Number.

To obtain the PESEL if you register your residence you have to prepare an application for the assigning of a PESEL Number – download  and fill it out at home. You can also obtain the application at the municipality/township office.
You need to prepare also a document, which confirms your identity and other data entered in the application form.
You can submit the application for PESEL In person or by a Proxy acting on your behalf. Learn more at the office how to handle the matter through a proxy.
Provide the actual legal base in the application, which entails the obligation of holding a PESEL Number. If Any agency (for example, ZUS (Social Security Agency) or tax Office requires the PESEL Number – it should also provide you with the legal base of such a requirement.
If there are any deficiencies in the application – you will be informed that they need to be supplemented. The office will not be able to review your application, if the said application fails to meet official requirements.

To obtain PESEL number fill out the application form and prepare your ID document, and submit the application with any municipality/township office.


Obtaining PESEL number is a free of charge service.
 


YThe official will immediately accept your application for PESEL. If there are grounds for assigning the PESEL number. – you will receive notice of assignment of the PESEL Number.


You can collect your PESEL document at the municipality/township office where you submitted your documents