	How can I submit my application form?
1. In person after previously booking a visit at
https://rezerwacje.duw.pl/reservations/ or in person after previously filling out
the application on-line, printing out and making a reservation of the visit at
https://przybysz.duw.pl
On Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.; Wednesday 8:00
a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
At the Provincial Office of Lower Silesia in Wrocław
Section of Civic Matters and Foreigners
Pl. Powstańców Warszawy 1
After coming to the Office approach the ticket machine of the line management
system, type in the reservation number, get the ticket and wait for your number to
be called out and once it is, approach the indicated post.
2. By mail to the address:
Dolnośląski Urząd Wojewódzki we Wrocławiu
Wydział Spraw Obywatelskich i Cudzoziemców
pl. Powstańców Warszawy 1
50-153 Wrocław
Remember to enter your valid place of stay in the application form. Having sent the
application form by means of post you will be called for appearance in person in order for
your fingerprints to be taken. You must appear in person at the headquarters of the
Lower Silesian Provincial Labour Office or in one of its Delegation Offices, approach the
ticket machine of the line management system and select the ticket “appearance in
person”.
NOTE: If you wish to register your fingerprints without being called by the Office, you can
do so not earlier than from the day of application form submission.
REMEMBER: registering of the account on the Information Portal
- https://przybysz.duw.pl, filling out the application on-line in the system, printing it
out and submitting in the Office may make proceeding process of your application
shorter and will allow you to monitor your case!
	What documents I should submit?
1. Filled out application and its 2 copies. Before filling out the application, familiarize
yourself with the, instruction in the application. Application for permission for
temporary residence.
2. Four photos:
Not destroyed, colour, sharp;
Size 35 mm x 45mm;
Made no earlier than within 6 days before the day of submitting the
application;
Depicting the face of a foreigner from the top of the head to the upper part of
shoulders so that the face is visible within 70-80% of the photo, on the
uniform background;
Depicting the person looking straight ahead, with eyes open, not covered by
hair, with natural expression and mouth closed, and showing natural skin
colour;
Depicting eyes of the foreigner, especially the pupils and the sight line of the
foreigner should be parallel to the upper edge of the photo;
Caution: Foreigner using head covers according to the rules of his religion may add
a photo to the application depicting him in the head cover on condition that the
face is visible. In such a case a declaration of the foreigner will be needed that he
belongs to a certain religious commune. Declaration of belonging to religious
commune.
3. Photocopy of a valid travel document (original for inspection). In particularly
justified cases, when a foreigner does not have a valid travel document and is
unable to obtain it, he may present another document confirming his identity (e.g.
residence card)
4. Confirmation of stamp duty payment
ATTENTION: Submission of the above documents is necessary to initiate
proceedings. In the case of submitting an application without any of the above
2022-10-21 4/6 Studies
documents, the Party of proceedings will be requested to supplement the formal
defects in the application. The procedure can be initiated only after completing the
missing documents by the indicated date and their positive verification by the
Office.
MOREOVER, TO MAKE A POSITIVE DECISION ON ACCOUNT OF THE STUDIES,
ENCLOSING THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS WILL BE ALSO NECESSARY:
5. Certificate from the unit conducting the studies on acceptance for the course or on
the continuation of studies or on acceptance for the preparatory course,
6. proof of payment of the tuition fee if the foreigner undertakes or continues paid
studies or proof of exemption from the tuition fee,,
7. 82. documents confirming the possession of health insurance within the meaning of
the provisions of the Act of 27 August 2004 on healthcare benefits financed from
public funds or confirmation of coverage by the insurer of treatment costs on the
territory of the Republic of Poland (e.g. appropriate certificate from Social Insurance
Institution, insurance policy),
documents confirming that sufficient funds are available to cover maintenance and
return travel to the country of origin or residence, or the cost of transit to a third
country, for example:
traveller's cheque,
certificate on the limit on the credit card issued by the bank that issued the
credit card, issued not earlier than one month before the date of submitting
the application for temporary residence permit,
certificate of having means of payment in a bank or cooperative savings and
credit union established in the territory of the Republic of Poland issued not
earlier than one month before the date of submitting an application for a
temporary residence permit,
document confirming the granting of a national or foreign scholarship,
certificate of employment and amount of salaries, issued not earlier than one
month before the date of submitting the application for a temporary residence
permit.
8. The minimum amount of funds which you must have to cover the cost of living is
701 PLN for each month of stay for a period of 15 months, if the period of stay is
less than 15 months (or the equivalent of this amount in foreign currency).
9. If you are in Poland with your family members who are dependent on you, you must
have the funds amounting to at least 528 PLN for yourself and each member of your
family for each month of stay or the equivalent in foreign currency.
In addition, you must have a return ticket or funds to cover the cost of return travel
to the country of origin or residence or the cost of transit to a third country, in the
2022-10-21 5/6 Studies
amount equivalent to the ticket on the basis of which you came to Poland, no less
than:
200 PLN, if you come from an adjacent country to the Republic of Poland,
500 PLN, if you come from another EU Member State than from one adjacent
to Poland,,
2500 PLN, if you are coming from a non-member country of the European
Union
or the equivalent of these amounts in a foreign currency.
10. Information on the number of persons who are dependent on you. Declaration on
the number of persons dependent on you.
ATTENTION: Attaching all of the documents listed in the application may speed up your
case and limit the amount of correspondence addressed to you. In case it is necessary to
provide clarification of the evidence held by the authority in your case, you may be
requested to provide additional documents or to provide explanations.
Documents should be submitted in originals or photocopies together with originals for
inspection. Civil status records confirming kinship or marital status issued by foreign
countries should be marked with apostille clause or be confirmed by the Polish consul. If
the application is accompanied by documents drawn up in a foreign language, it is also
required to submit a translation into Polish of a document made by a sworn translator.
	What are the fees?
The stamp duty for issuing a uniform permit for temporary residence and work is: 340,00
PLN
The fee should be paid to the account:
Gmina Wrocław
pl. Nowy Targ 1-8, 50-141 Wrocław
PKO BP S.A.
82 1020 5226 0000 6102 0417 7895
Remember to attach confirmation of payment of the fee to the application.
The fee should be paid to the account:
Dolnośląski Urząd Wojewódzki
50-153 Wrocław, pl. Powstańców Warszawy 1
2022-10-21 6/6 Studies
41 1010 1674 0005 9222 3100 0000
If you have a representative, the stamp duty for the submitted power of attorney
amounts to 17,00 PLN
The fee for representation must be paid to the below account:
Gmina Wrocław
pl. Nowy Targ 1-8, 50-141 Wrocław
PKO BP S.A.
82 1020 5226 0000 6102 0417 7895
	When and where can I collect my residence card?
After obtaining the permission (decision regarding temporary residence), in order to
obtain the residence card, you should submit:
1. Confirmation of payment for the card (50 PLN)
2. Valid confirmation of registration of residence for the temporary residence longer
than 2 months – if your address is to be placed on the card or else you ought to
submit a written declaration when your card should be issued without the address.
Declaration of printing a card without the address.
In case of not submitting the above mentioned confirmation of registration of residence
within 14 days from the day of collection of the decision about permission for temporary
residence, data about the address will not be included in the card.
Remember:
residence card may be collected only in person at the Department of Civic Matters and
Foreigners at pl. Powstańców Warszawy 1, in Wrocław.
More information about the residence card