	Where can I get a visa

Applications for Polish visas are submitted to Polish consulates and embassies abroad (not necessarily in the country of origin).
 The procedure for granting visas may also take place abroad. It is worth to start by arranging an appointment at a selected consulate. This can be done using the following virtual platform: www.e-konsulat.gov.pl.
For more detailed information on the visa procedure, it is best to contact the Polish embassy or consulate in the country you are located in . The full list of Polish representative offices across the world can be found here: www.gov.pl/web/dyplomacja/polskie-przedstawicielstwa-na-swiecie (PL/EN).

The rules of entering to Poland were also discussed in detail (PL/EN/RU) in the information materials of the Border Guard: www.strazgraniczna.pl/pl/cudzoziemcy/warunki-pobytu-cudzozie/3914,Warunki-pobytu-cudzoziemcow-w-RP.

Residence card
A residence card is a document which, together with a valid passport, entitles you to legally stay in Poland and cross the border several times without the need to obtain a visa.

A residence card is issued when you have been granted one of the following:

temporary residence permit or a temporary residence and work permit,
permanent residence permit,
long-term EU residence permit,
refugee status,
subsidiary protection,
a humanitarian residence permit.
Residence card serves only as a confirmation of what is already in your stay permit. Its validity is therefore dependent on temporary stay permit. In case of other stay permits, the residence card validity is as follows:

permanent stay permit – for 10 years from the issue date;
long-term EU residence permit – for 5 years from the issue date;
humanitarian residence permit – for 2 years from the issue date.
The waiting time for the residence card after the decision on the residence permit has been granted is about 2–4 months (although you have to take into account that it may take much longer due to a high number of applications submitted in the last few years).
