	What documents do I have to submit (according to
permit types)?
Please familiarize with the work permit types below and choose a permit type applicable
to you.
Work permit A - for foreigners working in the Republic of Poland on a contract basis with
an entity which is headquartered, has a branch, place of residence, facility, or another
form business within the territory of the Republic of Poland.
Work permit B - for foreigners: holding a post on the board of a legal entity entered in to
the commercial register or being a limited company, in an organization or in relation to
managing a limited or a limited joint-stock partnership as a general partner or due to
having been appointed proxy rights for a period of at least 6 months within the last 12
subsequent months.
Work permit C - for foreigners who are employed by an employer abroad, who delegates
them to the Republic of Poland for periods longer than 30 days in a calendar year to a
branch or facility of the foreign entity or an entity related to the foreign employer, as
understood by the provisions of the Act of 26 July 1991 on Personal Income Tax (Journal
of Laws of 2016, item 2032, as amended)
Work permit D - for foreigners who work for a foreign employer that does not have a
branch, facility, or other business activity in the Republic of Poland, who are delegated to
the Republic of Poland to provide occasional and temporary services (export services).
Work permit E - for foreigners who are employed with an employer abroad, who
delegates the foreigner to the Republic of Poland for periods longer than 30 days in 6
consecutive months for reasons different than those outlined in permits B, C, or D.
Application for a work permit
2022-10-21 2/4 Work permit
	How can I make an application?
1. In person after previously booking a visit at
https://rezerwacje.duw.pl/reservations/ or in person after previously filling out
the application on-line, printing out and making a reservation of the visit at
https://przybysz.duw.pl
On Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m.; Wednesday 8:00
a.m. – 6:00 p.m.
At the Provincial Office of Lower Silesia in Wrocław
Section of Civic Matters and Foreigners
Pl. Powstańców Warszawy 1
or in one of the three Delegation offices of the Office:
1. Delegation office in Legnica
ul. F. Skarbka 3
59-220 Legnica
2. Delegation office in Wałbrzych
ul. Słowackiego 23a
58-300 Wałbrzych
3. Delegation office in Jelenia Góra
ul. Piłsudskiego 12
58-500 Jelenia Góra
After coming to the Office approach the ticket machine of the line management
system, type in the reservation number, get the ticket and wait for your number to
be called out and once it is, approach the indicated post.
2. By mail to the address:
Dolnośląski Urząd Wojewódzki we Wrocławiu
Wydział Spraw Obywatelskich i Cudzoziemców
pl. Powstańców Warszawy 1
50-153 Wrocław
REMEMBER: registering of the account on the Information Portal
- https://przybysz.duw.pl, filling out the application on-line in the system, printing it
out and submitting in the Office may make proceeding process of your application
shorter and will allow you to monitor your case!
2022-10-21 3/4 Work permit
	What are the fees?
The fee for the work permit is:
50 PLN - in cases when the entity assigning work to the foreigner intends to assign
work for a period shorter than 3 months;
100 PLN - in cases when the entity assigning work to the foreigner intends to assign
work for a period longer than 3 months;
200 PLN – in cases when the entity assigning work to the foreigner intends to
delegate a foreigner to the Republic of Poland to provide an export service (work
permit D).
The relevant payment should be sent to the bank account of the Silesian Voivodship
Office in Wroclaw: Dolnośląski Urząd Wojewódzki in Wrocław
NBP O/O Wrocław
41 1010 1674 0005 9222 3100 0000
	What should I know?
The permit is issued by a voivode appropriate to:
the headquarters or place of residence of the employer who intends to hire a
foreigner (type A or type B),
headquarters of the entity to which the foreigner is delegated (type C),
headquarters or the place of residence of the entity for which the service is
provided, and if the entity is headquartered abroad – then the appropriate voivode
is the one responsible for the place of the work done by the foreigner in the
Republic of Poland (type D),
the main place of work performed by the foreigner in the Republic of Poland (type
E).
In cases where the specificity of the work carried out makes it impossible to pinpoint the
main place of the work, the permit is issued by the Mazowieckie Voivode.
In cases where the appropriate voivode changes due to the change of the headquarters
of the entity assigning work, change of the headquarters of the entity to which the
foreigner is sent, or change in the main place of work, the appropriate voivode is
determined on the day the form is submitted.
2022-10-21 4/4 Work permit
In the proceedings for a work permit for a foreigner, the only party is the entity assigning
the work to the foreigner.
If you’re submitting documents in a foreign language, you also need to provide a Polish
translation, certified by a sworn translator.
The letters are delivered to the address indicated in the form, or, if you arrange a
representative, to the address of the representative.
The work permit is issued for a set time period, not longer than 3 years; it can be
renewed. In cases where the foreigner is on the board of a legal entity, which on the day
of the application employs more than 25 people, the voivode may issue a work permit for
a period up to 5 years.
The work permit may be issued for a period shorter than indicated in the application in
cases outlined in the Decree of the Silesian Voivode no. 1 of 21 December 2015 on the
criteria for the work permits for foreigners, effective in the Silesian voivodship
(Government Gazette of the Silesian Voivodship of 2015, item 6061)
In cases of delegating a foreigner by a foreign employer to provide an export service, the
voivode issues a work permit for the time of the delegation.
Permits are issued for a specific employer, a specific foreigner, or in a specific place, and
post, for a period marked by the date
A work permit is issued in three copies, two of which are given to the entity assigning
work to the foreigner.
The work permit legally expires on the day in which the foreigner has been granted a
temporary residence and work permit for work with the same employer, and on the same
position.